862 AENEIDEA [aaa-824 ossas—raam

battlea, bat battles which should work tho Teneai themselves
harm]; 9. 3552 “Lux iniuriae propinquat'' [daylight whioh
shall do ns herm, whioh'is inimioal to' us]; Stat Theb. h 611:

‘⁴ ouius ab interitu aaa ulla Amphionis areas

vidit amica ‹lies'¹ ⁴

[no day whioh did not bring soma oalamity with it]. ,And ao

Servius: “ Casina mumma. Non tantum hostilio, sed et per·
sicione. Nam oum doloro dictumest utrumn: arada soilioet
redituri aare ararat.'’ ⁴ ⁵

Monrls naman anre aornar nx1r10 (vv.315-316).-“Haso
per Latinitatem, imo per auiusvis linguae rationem, non aliter
explicari possunt, ,quamz casana annuns inierioomm, priua
'ramam qoam illa casrnn peterent, uunrrs ararnio aarum ararat
Talis antem sententia ab universa rei gestae historia abhorret,''
Peerlkamp3 who accordingly amputatas the offending member,

so that the text may run t

mm mmet aarum. sonato vmoaun PBR HBRBAH·

Peerlkamp's mistake is double. {rumen is not balonginp to tha
arwam, but inimiool, tay‘riendlp (see above), and am refers not
to camna, bnt to munos, so as to afford the sense, aot “before
they arrivs at the enemy's oamp they shall destroy many of the
enemy,'' but “ before they experisnoe the enmity oi the oamp,”
i, e. before they ars destroyed themselves they shall destroy
many. There are, indeed, the two deieots in the passage—first,
lhe somewhat unusual, and therefore, beoause not olsared up,
deoeptive and ambiguous sease in whioh the epithet “inimicus'’
is applied to cassam and seoondly, the inoorreot referenoe oi

exre, not to the preoeding point of time, rnnnnr, to whioh the
mind oi the rsader logically refers it, but to a mere opitho,

innuen. Suoh defeots, however, instead of showing that tha
passage is not Virgil's, and should, therefore, bs eliminated
from the text, rather show the contrary, Virgil being, like so
many oi his brethren in the Musa, always more solioitous about
poetioal effeot than logical structure, and never not ready to
sacrifiea the latter to the former. see Rem. on “it mara
proruptum,'’ 1. 248. A better aequaintanoe with this so general

 

